springtails these tiny creatures can
barely see shapes because their eyes
have only eight light-sensitive cells
compared to the human eyes 100,000,000
vinegar flies these flies play an
important role in science and medicine
since around 75% of human disease genes
can be found in these bugs bark beetles
since they live inside trees bark
beetles don't need to have great
eyesight they can only distinguish blue
and green objects and at a very low
resolution house flies these guys
reproduce so fast that in just five
months a colony can grow from two flies
to 191 quadrillion house mice despite
being colorblind and able to see only
two feet mice have perfect hearing this
helps them avoid predators honey bees
honeybees are excellent dancers when
they find a good source of pollen and
nectar they fly back to their hive and
perform certain moves to show the other
bees where it is locusts a typical
locust swarm can eat nearly half a
billion pounds of plants every day
old-world swallowtails these butterflies
get their name from the unusual shape of
their rear wings which resemble the tail
of a swallow sand wasps sand wasps have
an in long gated upper lip so they look
like they have beaks jumping spiders
these guys rely on their impressive
jumping abilities instead of webs to
catch their prey brown rats the brown
rat is dominant in Europe and much of
North America making it the second most
successful mammal on the planet after
human beings Oh rats
goldfish if a goldfish is kept in a dark
place for a while its color will fade if
it's kept under natural light it will
become brighter
Green darkness this is one of the most
recognizable dragonflies thanks to the
yellow and blue bullseye mark on its
head Mill Gayye the population of Ville
gay in India is so great that they often
destroy farmland farmers set up fences
around their fields to keep them out
fantail done arts the newborn babies of
this species are smaller than our grain
of rice sand lizards because a
cold-blooded they need to lie in the Sun
and raise their body temperature in
order to become active Red Deer adult
males roar very loudly to attract
females the number of mates the deer
attracts depends on how loud it can be
hmm sounds like my dorm opossums when
opossums sense danger they flop to the
ground and exude an unusual aroma the
awful smell is enough to make predators
look elsewhere for a meal alligators
alligators are born male or female
depending on the temperature of the egg
if the temperature is above 93 degrees
Fahrenheit they become males if it's
below 86 degrees they're born female
well that's cold Gallegos the sound
these primates make resembles the cry of
a small child
which is why Gallegos is sometimes
called bush babies elephants they're the
largest land mammals on earth they can
reach 13 feet in height and weigh as
much as six cars but they can only see
clearly to a distance of about 25 feet
donkeys wild donkeys may have been tamed
by our ancestors even earlier than
horses work about 5000 years ago cats
cats spend two-thirds of their lives
sleeping harbor seals seals can exhale
90% of the air in their lungs in every
breath that's really impressive
humans can exchange only about 20% of
the air they breathe in one go
little Alps little owls can be heard
from several miles away on a still
evening adult little owls can perform
over 20 different calls imagine alec
penguins these beautiful birds use their
wings like paddles when traveling
through the water allowing them to reach
a speed of more than 15 miles per hour
great horned owls the huge yellow eyes
of these birds are unable to move
instead the owls have to rotate their
heads to look around they have a 270
degree field of view quails
the ancient Egyptians used a hieroglyph
depicting a quail it signified an O
sound read buntings if a predator comes
too close to its nest the bird will
pretend to be injured in an attempt to
draw attention away from its hiding
place tawny owls you can easily fool
tawny owls into thinking you're one of
them by blowing through Cup hands more
than ninety percent of males will
believe you and respond to your call
chickens chickens are the closest living
relative to the t-rex though perhaps
they're not quite as scary barn owls
their ears are not symmetrical which
makes them unsurpassed hunters the left
ear is at the level of the forehead and
the right is at the level of the owls
nostrils horses it's hard to believe but
the ancestors of horses were the size of
an average dog they lived in the dense
forests that covered our planet 50
million years ago
yellow hammers this bird is often called
a scribble art because its eggs have
unique scribble like markings
dogs dogs have developed color vision
but it's not as good as humans they
perceive red and orange colors poorly
but they're better at distinguishing
shades of grey pigeons you've probably
never seen a pigeon chick why because
juvenile pigeons don't emerge from their
moms nest until they look like adults
blue jays they imitate the cries of
hawks possibly to warn other jays about
the birds of prey being nearby but it
may also be because they're trying to
scare rivals away from a food source
peacocks peacocks are one of the largest
flying birds in the world they have a
wingspan of nearly five feet which is
about the size of a refrigerator and a
tail that makes up 60% of their body
length field fares these birds have a
unique defense strategy they rush down
on their enemies and spray them with
their droppings their goal is to glue
their rivals wings together and make it
impossible for them to fly I just can't
say any more common black birds a female
black bird is a real hard worker they do
most of the work when it comes to making
a nest and building a home for them is
no easy task it can take them up to 14
days to finish chaff inches in Belgium
there is a traditional sport called
Lincoln setting which involves counting
the number of calls made in an hour by
two or more competing chaffinches that
is exciting giraffes a giraffe's neck is
long enough to help it reach food at the
top of trees but it's too short to reach
the ground that's why they have to
spread their front legs when they drink
sacred kingfishers despite their name
the Kingfisher seldom eats fish its diet
consists mainly of insects and small
animals Eurasian Jake's this bird is
unbelievably clever it can mimic a broad
range of sounds including a human voice
capuchin monkeys capuchin monkeys are
capable of learning how to use tools
like stones or sticks once some of them
were even trained to use money Eurasian
Magpies these guys are among the most
intelligent birds out there they have
one of the largest brain sizes in
comparison to their bodies laughing
kookaburras the Laughing Kookaburra got
its name because of its laughter like
call crab-eating macaques the name
speaks for itself these monkeys are
often seen on beaches trying to catch
some crabs chimpanzees these monkeys not
only have great perception they can also
learn up to eight hundred signs in order
to interact with people humans their
eyes can distinguish ten million
different colors they can also detect a
burning candle from almost two miles
away the human eye also contains
extremely fast muscles that help them to
focus on objects in a fraction of a
second American kestrels this is the
smallest Falcon found in North America
besides having great eyesight this bird
can see ultraviolet light brown Falcons
studies show that the vision of a brown
Falcon is eight times better than our
own these birds can spot small prey from
nearly two miles away and they can catch
it in just a few seconds at a speed of
240 miles per hour
serpent Eagles despite having eyes about
the same size as humans Eagles have five
times as many light-sensitive cells
inside each retina
which tail Eagles with the biggest
wingspan of any Eagle these birds can
fly almost effortlessly for hours on end
at a height of almost six thousand feet
above the ground they also have the best
eyesight of any animal on earth you
rarely see them wearing glasses